For the KPI selection there are two requirements that need to be fulfilled. First there need to be some KPIs that are relevant for the sewing process. Second there need to be KPIs that are relevant for manufacturing companies in general. Also these KPIs need to be able to be computed based on the available signals. So it was first determined which supporting elements can be calculated based on the signals. And more generally speaking which observations can me made based on the available signals. It is important to note that only four of the signals can be made available.

First of all it was noted that based on the signals thread trimming, pressure foot and main shaft rotating a production pattern that could be observed could also be measured. The pattern is as follows. First the pressure foot is lifted because the worker needs to insert the material. Then the pressure foot is lowered so that it puts pressure on the material. Then the worker would start sewing, resulting in the main shaft rotating signal being true. Then this signal would change to false when the seam is finished. After that the pressure foot would be lifted again to remove the workpiece. While it is removed the thread would get trimmed. Finally the pressure would be lowered again indicating the end of the pattern.
Based on this pattern the duration of the pure working time on the sewing machine could be measured.
Based on the thread trimming signal it could be measured how many pieces are produced, by simply counting the events when this signal turns true. By measuring the duration from one thread trimming signal until the next the cycle time could be measured. 
By simply measuring the time that the upper shaft is rotating it could be determined how long the machine is used for just sewing.
The signal "other than homescreen" could indicate that the setup of the machine is currently being changed.
The signal "homescreen and not sewing" can be used to observe the activation of the machine. One could think that it is simply the inverted state of the "upper shaft rotating" signal. This is the case when the machine is turned on. But when the machine is turned off all signals are false. Therefore the transition from all signals being false to "homescreen and not sewing" being true and the other signals being still false would indicate the activation of the machine. This could be used to measure setup time until the first pattern arises.
