The final system was planned to run on a server with fedora linux. To make the deployment a seamless experience especially for coworkers who might iterate the solution, it was decided to use docker as an orchestration tool. This had the nice sideeffect that the development of the solution could be easily done on various machines. For the orchestration a docker-compose.yml file was setup. For each service except the "simulator" the data and config folders were mounted to data and config folder within the project folder. This enabled the versioning of the contents of the folders. For Node-RED the InfluxDB API token was set, because when it was set in within the web UI it was not persistent. For InfluxDB a healthcheck was setup because it sometimes crashed, it restarts the container when it exits. A watchdog script is implemented to exit the container when it is unhealthy. For grafana and Node-RED it is set that they depend on InfluxDB so that they wait for InfluxDB to run before they start running. The fourth container is the simulator. It simulates real time data flow from the sewing machine. Because it consists of two scripts an additional supervisor config was implemented to orchestrate the order of execution. This is necessary because the one script is dependent upon the other.
Because Node-RED depends on some additional packages a command needs to be executed to install these packages whenever the solution is deployed. Also it was detected that here happen to be problems with access rights on linux machines. To avoid having to tackle these issues everytime a start script was created. It contains all necessary commands to successfully start the solution. So when the solution is deployed to a different system, or changes were being made, only the start script needs to be executed to run all containers. 
The versioning of the whole system is done in gitlab. Due to the use of docker images, only the data and config files, as well as the described scripts and docker (compose) files need to be versioned. This reduces overhead significantly.